So what I'd like for you to try is
the layout for the footer of this webpage.
Once again,
I've given you a beginning CodePen,
I'll show you what that looks like.
Here it is, fill in your name,
fill in your title.
Here's where you're gonna place
your LinkedIn, your GitHub, and
your email links, and you can set up
your copyright statement here, okay?
So you're gonna do everything that
we have talked about this morning.
You're gonna start with
good semantic markup.
This is the footer of the webpage,
that should be a hint to you.
This is a series of links here that
have icons associated with them,
that should be a hint to you.
It's gonna be about 400 pixels wide across
all dimensions, so you don't have to worry
about responsive design, just worry
about getting it to work this way.
And again, it'll work independently
inside of that CodePen.
I have copied over into that introductory
CodePen all of the styles that we have
generated through the navigation
portion of the course.
It's already hooked up
to our Google Fonts, and
it's hooked up to Font Awesome, so
you don't need to worry about that.
So go ahead and write that markup, put
in your icons and make them accessible,
and style it up so it looks just
like the image that I showed you.
So I have up here my answer.
And so, let's look at the HTML first,
because it always starts with great HTML.
So first of all, I wrapped a footer
element around the whole thing because,
of course, it's the footer of the webpage,
and so that makes sense.
I have put in my name and my title.
And then I have a series of links.
Notice that I did not wrap this
series of links in a nav tag.
That's because this is not major
navigation for the website.
It's navigation, it should be a series
of links to be visited in any order.
That is an unordered list
with some links inside of it.
But major navigation usually gets the nav
element as opposed to things that often
occur in the footer like this.
Or privacy policies, and
terms and conditions, and
that kind of stuff that you find in the
footer, generally doesn't get a nav tag.
If you put in a nav tag,
it's really not the end of the world.
There is definitely some debate
on the nav element in whether
it should be used just for major
navigation or all kinds of navigation.
That's the way that I interpret it though,
so
that's why I don't have
a nav element there.
If you put one in, that's awesome.
Okay, so then, of course, we have pretty
much what you had before for LinkedIn,
what we had before for GitHub.
And then you could set up that mailto
link that I talked about earlier,
you could set that up with the email here.
Make sure that you have all those
text equivalents in place, and
I set them all to be screen reader only.
And then down here at the bottom of
the page, I have my copyright statement.
And I have an element here that you
may not have heard about before or
maybe you've been told not to use,
and that is the small element.
So small just like B and I, this was
an element that we had back in the day.
[COUGH] The opposite of
a small was big [LAUGH] and
it was designed to make text small or big.
It disappeared in HTML 4,
it came back in HTML 5, and
the small element is now recommended for
small print, fine print.
So disclaimers, for example,
or copyright statements, or
other types of things like this,
where it's sort of all of that terms and
conditions type of stuff.
That is what small is used for, and
that's why I put it down here
in the copyright statement.
If you didn't do that and you just have
a regular old paragraph, that's okay too.
The small element is sort of
a higher level kind of element
that you may not have already known about.
We go into our CSS, so this is all of
the CSS prior to the footer element here.
This is all of the CSS that we've
written so far in the course.
And then to this, we add the following.
So first of all, I align my text in
the center, I just put that right
on the footer element, and
text align is a property that's inherited.
So that will carry through
into all of the descendant
elements from the footer element.
Then, of course,
we style up our unordered list.
Just like I told you before,
I have a list-style-type of none and
a padding of 0.
I did keep some margin here in place,
although it looks like it's not
displaying over here in CodePen.
But just to provide a little bit of space
when we copy this over into VS code,
which is what we're gonna do next.
And then, of course, I turned it into
a nav bar by making it display flex,
row wrap, justify-content in the center.
I gave it a nice fat gap, cuz again,
finger navigation on a phone,
you wanna have a nice
big clickable area and
you wanna have space between those links,
and pumped up the font size.
So I pretty much styled the footer
here in just two styles.
And the rest of the stuff
carries in from the navigation,
and including the fact that we
have these magenta colored icons.
And that when we roll our mouse over them,
they turn to the hot magenta color,
that all carries in actually
from some earlier styles.